## Week 9 Quiz Questions and Answers

In order to prepare your Week 9 Quiz submission, please edit ***this*** document to provide substantive questions for each Quiz Problem and SAS Recipe listed below, as well as answers to at least three questions raised.

All edits should conform to GitHub Markdown specifications (https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and should be committed to a branch named "week-9" in your fork of this repo. Then, after all edits have been made/committed, your Week 9 Quiz should be submitted by initiating a pull request using

- the master branch of the stat6250/course_questions_wiki repo as the base fork and

- the week-9 branch of your version of the repo as the head fork.

The instructor will then review the pull request and make comments should further revision be needed. Then, after the contents of the pull request have been finalized without any merge conflicts, the instructor will merge the pull request.

********************************************************************************



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 1]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): If you do not specify a BY clause, what is the increment value for DO loops?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): The increment value for DO loops is 1.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : Are there any statements that can be used to combine the functions of data step and proc step ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What is the benefits of the DO loops statement?
- Answer (rluo-stat6250): It can greatly reduce the number of statements required for a repetitive calculation.



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 2]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): Why the index variables can be dropped from the data set?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What’s the value of the index “month” in the last iteration of the loop ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What increment values can be applied in the DO loops statement?
- Answer (rluo-stat6250): Numbers, variables, or SAS expressions.



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 3]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can you make it easier to manage nested DO loops?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can indent the statements in each loop.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What new variables are generated in this do loop ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What does the index variable do in the DO loop statement?
- Answer (rluo-stat6250): The index variable stores the value of the current iteration of the DO loop.



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 4]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): Under what situations that we use DO WHILE and DO UNTIL statements?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): DO WHILE and DO UNTIL statements can be used within iterative DO loops to combine conditional and unconditional execution. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What would be the stored value for Year if an “until” statement is used ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What specific steps must be achieved in order to correctly nest DO loops?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 5]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): What's the difference between DO WHILE and DO UNTIL statements?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): The DO UNTIL statement executes a DO loop until a condition becomes true while the DO WHILE statement is used to execute a DO loop while a condition is true.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How many iterations does the loop process if “by=3” is indicated in the “do” statement ?
- *Answer* (lwang30-stat6250) : There will be 5 iterations within this do loop if "by=3" is indicated.
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What statements can be used to achieve the conditional DO loops?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 6]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can you run DO loops within DO loops?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250):  You assign a unique index variable to each loop and terminate each DO loop with its own END statement. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : Does the number of new observation generated by do loop equal the number of iteration ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Can conditional and unconditional execution of DO loops be achieved?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 7]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250):  Once the loop's index value exceeds the stop value, the DO loop stops, and processing continues with the following DATA step statement. So how can we re-open the previous Do loop if necessary?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : In what situations should we use DO While or Do Until statements ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What is the benefits of achieving conditional and unconditional execution of DO loops?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 8]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): Why the start value must be greater than the stop value when you decrement a DO loop by specifying a negative value for the BY clause? What kind of error will occur if the request is not fulfilled?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : When is the condition evaluated respectively in other DO loop statements ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): How to draw sample obervations from a data set by using DO loop?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 9]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can you specify that how many times that a DO loop executes?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can specify how many times a DO loop executes by listing items in a series.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : Are DO While and DO Until statements complementary to each other ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Can Do loop be used in the proc statement?



[Course Textbook Chapter 14, Problem 10]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How to construct an iterative DO loop?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): By specifying an index variable and the conditions that will execute the loop. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What would the statement be if DO Until is used in this case ? 
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Is there any disadvantages of using DO loops statement?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 1]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): What will happen if you using the name of a SAS function as an array name?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): The array will be correct, but you won't be able to use the function in the same DATA step, and a warning will be written to the SAS log.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What statements can be described as "executable" ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What is the SAS array?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 2]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can you indicate the dimension of a one-dimensional array?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can indicate the dimension of a one-dimensional array with an asterisk (*) as long as you specify the elements of the array. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What other syntax can be used to define this array ?
- *Answer* (lwang30-stat6250) : An asterisk * can be used to replace the number "4" here to define this one-dimensional array.
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Where does the SAS array exist?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 3]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can you create temporary array elements for DATA step processing without creating additional variables?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can specify _TEMPORARY_ after the array name and dimension.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : Which statement do we usually associate with a referenced array statement ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): How long can the SAS array last?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 4]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How to define a multidimensional array?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can specify the number of elements in each dimension, separated by a comma. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What is the function of the number in the "{}" of an array statement ?
- *Answer* (lwang30-stat6250) : It is used to give a subscript to each element of the defined array.
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What is the benefits by using SAS array?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 5]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): You can create temporary array elements for DATA step processing without creating additional variables, but what step you must take then?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You need to specify _TEMPORARY_ after the array name and dimension.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : What functions does "DIM" have in referencing an array in a do loop ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): How to define a SAS Array?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 6]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): Why do we have to enclose each value in quotation marks when assigning initial values to character variables? Which error will occur if we fail to do so?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : Can character and numeric variables be combined in one array statement ? 
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Can we use array names in LABEL, FORMAT, DROP, KEEP, or LENGTH statements?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 7]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How to create an array of character variables?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): You can add a dollar sign ($) after the array dimension.
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How many iterations does this do loop process ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): What is the dimension of the array?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 8]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): Why you don't have to re-specify the stop value of a DO statement if you change the dimension of the array when you use the DIM function?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How to define the length of the character variables in an array statement ? 
- Question (rluo-stat6250): How do we specify variable lists?



[Course Textbook Chapter 15, Problem 9]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): What is the purpose of a SAS array?
- Answer (yzhu12-stat6250): An array is a temporary grouping of variables under a single name. This can reduce the number of statements needed to process variables and can simplify the maintenance of DATA step programs. 
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How many rows and columns are present in this array ?
- Question (rluo-stat6250): Can the variables types be different in the array?



[recipe_to_create_unique_record_id (from Week 9 Overview)]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can we convert some particular numeric to character and which statement do we use to convert character to numeric?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How can we use the "CATX" function to concatenate two strings ? 
- Question (rluo-stat6250): In what kind of situation do we need to create or change the unique id?



[recipe_to_disaggregate_counts_data (from Week 9 Overview)]
- Question (yzhu12-stat6250): How can we tell if the data is a fine data so that we can coombine it with other dataset and input into something like proc mean or proc freq?
- *Question* (lwang30-stat6250) : How do we use do loop to aggregate data to a higher level ? 
- Question (rluo-stat6250): In what kind of situation do we need to disaggregate the data?


